I You are standing on a pedestrian walkway that arches over a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a large stranger. The only way to save the five workmen is to push the stranger, who would fall onto tracks and stop the train. The stranger will be killed if you push him. Is it all right or not all right to push the stranger onto the tracks and stop the train?
R It’s not all right to push him onto the track.
I And why wouldn’t it be all right?
R Because he wasn’t in the situation, so it’s his right to live. 
I Okay. And what do you mean that he wasn’t in this situation?
R Like if he was like… like the other scenario that they say where you can switch the lever, like the other guy was already in the situation, so in that case you would be saving a live, whereas you’re kind of taking his. You’re kind of interfering with his right to live.
I Okay. So because he’s not in this situation, you don’t think it’s okay because you’d be interfering with his right to live.
R Yes.
Okay. So why is it better to allow the events to occur and let the one person live than to intervene and save the five lives?
R First of all it’s morally not right to kill someone, and those people I guess were in the situation so you can’t do anything about, but if you kill the one person… you’re killing him.
So it’s morally not right to kill. But then the workmen were in the situation, is that what you said?
R Yeah.
And can you just say again what you mean that the workmen were in the situation?
RSo like you’re not responsible for killing them; they were already in the situation, whereas if you push the, you’re morally responsible.
Got it. Okay. Why is it all right to let the five people die?
R Because you  really can’t do anything about. It’s kind of out of your hands.
So what do you mean by it’s out of your hands?
R You’re not responsible for their deaths. It’s not placed on you. It’s placed on whoever put them there.
Okay. So if you didn’t push the stranger and let the five people die you wouldn’t see yourself as being responsible?
R No.
Now suppose some else decides not to intervene and let the five people die. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R And they would push the guy?
Yeah. If they decided to intervene by pushing the man to save the five, do you think it’d be all right or not all right?
R I still think it would be not morally okay to do so, seeing that, again, they would be purposely killing that guy who was just an innocent bystander. 
Right. Okay. So not morally okay to push the innocent bystander. Here’s the ext one. You are standing near a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a switch.  The only way to save the five workmen is to flip the switch, which would divert the train onto an alternate track where there is a single railway workman. The single workman will be killed if you flip the switch. Is it all right or not all right to pull the switch and redirect the trolley on to the side track?
R I think it’s morally okay to switch the tracks.
And why is it okay? Well, you said morally…
R Well, I shouldn’t actually say morally.
No, that’s okay. Just, why do you think it’s okay to flip the switch?
R Because in that situation, either way, someone’s doing to do. If you’re going to switch it where there’s one person who would die rather than five, you’re kind of saving four lives, if you look at it in an optimistic way. You’re saving instead of killing.
I see. So either way one will die.
R Yeah. Either way someone is going to die, so where you can save four, you would do that option rather than just save one. 
Okay. So you would save the five because it’s more people?
R Yes.
Okay. Why is it better to intervene to save the five than to allow the events to occur and let the one person live?
R Because either way, someone is going to do and they’re both in the situation, so it’s not like you’re taking away someone’s life, because either way if you don’t do something, someone’s going to die, so you are taking away a life, but if you look at where you could save four, than  save one and watch five die.
I see. So you would rather save more just because either way someone’s going to die.
R Yes.
Okay. Why is it all right to let the one person die?
R Because I would rather save four than save one, and they both put themselves in that situation.
What do you mean they put themselves in that situation?
R They’re in that situation, so they put themselves or someone put them on the track, so it’s not like you’re an innocent bystander.
So they’re all kind of on an equal level because they all put themselves on the track.
R Yeah.
Suppose someone else decides not to intervene and let the five people die. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R In this situation it would be whatever they decided, because they’re not taking away a life in the innocent bystander kind of way, but either way someone is going to die so if they think that for them morally that it’s fine to just let the track do its own thing so that they won’t be responsible, then that’s their decision.
So you can understand their decision.
To not flip the switch.
Yeah. And you had said that they didn’t want to be responsible, so you could understand that.
Yeah.

You are standing on a pedestrian walkway that arches over a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train is a railway workman, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a large stranger. The only way to save the workman is to push the stranger, who would fall onto tracks and stop the train. The stranger will be killed if you push him. Is it all right or not all right to push the stranger onto the tracks and stop the train?
R It’s not all right because you’re pushing someone, you’re taking someone’s life away, and it’s all on you.
Okay. So it’s not okay because you’re taking someone’s life away?
R Yeah. That’s like, innocent in this situation.
Right. So taking someone who’s innocent. And you also said that it’s all on you?
R Yeah, because you would be purposely pushing him, even though you’re saving a life, you’re taking a life. He has the right to live, so you’re kind of taking that away from  him.
Okay. So if you did purposely push someone  you’re taking their right to live?
R Yes.
Okay. Why is it better to allow the events to occur and let one person live than to intervene to save the other person’s life?
R Because it’s not like your responsibility, seeing that I guess he put himself, or that situation happened to him; if you intervened, it would be equal, like one for one, and all responsibility would be on you. It would be looked at like you purposely killed someone, whereas it would be an accident if the train hit the other person.
Okay. So if you didn’t intervene the responsibility would not fall on you?
R No.
Yeah. So you would see it as being an accident if you didn’t intervene?
R Yes.
Okay. Why is all right to let one person die?
R Because it’s out of your hands. There’s nothing you can really do to save him without harming someone else.
Okay. Because you said it was out of your hands, but you do have the option…
R You do have the option, but it’s not a morally correct option.
So it’s not worth it to save one to kill one. Okay. Now suppose someone else decides to intervene and save one person. Would it be all right or not all right to do that?
R I still don’t think that it’s okay, because again the guy or the stranger is an innocent bystander, and by you pushing him just to save one life would be like, again, all the responsibility would be on you and then you’re kind of obstructing his life to live by pushing him when he has like nothing to do with the incident that was going to happen.
So even if it was someone else who did that you don’t think it’s okay?
R No.
Next one. You are standing near a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train is a railway workman, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a switch.  The only way to save the workman is to flip the switch, which would divert the train onto an alternate track where there is another railway workman. The latter workman will be killed if you flip the switch. Is it all right or not all right to pull the switch and redirect the trolley on to the side track?
R In this situation I don’t think that it would be okay if you switched it. Like, you shouldn’t switch it.
Okay. And why is not all right to switch it?
R The way I see it is that it’s still like one for one, so you wouldn’t be gaining anything out of switching the switch, and without touching anything or doing anything, the responsibility is not held on you.
Okay. So you don’t see yourself as responsible if you don’t flip the switch.
R No.
Okay. And what do you mean if it was one for one you wouldn’t be gaining anything?
R Yeah because in other instances it was like 5 and 1, so at least if you did hold the responsibility for switching the switch, you still kind of came out with a positive outcome of saving four lives, whereas in this one it’s 1 for 1, so either way someone’s going to die, and I’d rather not that responsibility.
Okay. Why is it better to allow the events to occur and let one person live than to intervene to save the other person’s life?
R Because the events are going to happen, and I guess it’s just like he was in that pathway, and I guess it’s kind of coincidental, so if you’re just kind of equaling out, you can’t really intervene in this situation. 
Okay. So you said the word coincidental.  So you see the events happening as they are as just kind of…
R Kind of just a bad situation, yeah.
Okay. And why is it all right to let one person die?
R Either way someone is going to die, and you can’t save them both so you shouldn’t choose which one that you  can  save. So if you just let the situation happen he way it was going to happen, then I mean, there’s really nothing that you can do.
Why shouldn’t you choose between the two?
R Because you can’t really define who gets to live and who doesn’t, because human  life is kind of on an equal playing field, so you just let the situation play out. 
Now suppose else decides to intervene and save one person. Would it be all right or not all right to do that?
R I don’t think it would be personally okay, but if that’s the decision that they wanted to do, then you can’t really do anything about it. But I would view it as being wrong.
Okay. So would you say that it’s not all right if they wanted to do that?
R Yes I would say that it’s not all right.
So why wouldn’t it be okay?
R Because again, it’s one for one and you’re choosing who should be killed, and by choosing you switch the situation so it’s held on your responsibility, where it would just be held on… how that situation occurred in the first place.
Okay. So if it was another person, they’d be responsible. But you still don’t think that they should choose who can live?
R No. I don’t think so.
