I You are standing near a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a switch.  The only way to save the five workmen is to flip the switch, which would divert the train onto an alternate track where there is a single railway workman. The single workman will be killed if you flip the switch. Is it all right or not all right to pull the switch and redirect the trolley on to the side track?
R I personally would not flip the switch. I would have tried a different method, mostly because if I flip the switch I would feel personally responsible for the workmen and  obviously the five workmen should have known about this train coming, in my opinion, and I feel as though the person who is in charge of that train or everyone working on that train should be aware of where the workmen are on the train track. I would have just done something different; I would not have flipped the switch.
I Yeah. Okay so you don’t think it’s okay to flip the switch.
R Because either way someone’s going to die.
I Sure. And then I think it’s just important to remember that in this scenario, because you were saying you’d like to do something else, but it’s kind of like, you either flip the switch or you don’t. So you would say that it’s not all right to pull the switch?
R Right.
I Can you just say more about that?
R For one thing, I would feel responsible. If that’s the only thing that I could do, that’d make it harder…
I Right. But you’d feel responsible, so you wouldn’t want to?
R Yeah.
I So what would it mean to feel responsible if you did pull the switch?
R Although the train may have not killed the five men, it would have killed someone else and it would have been my intention of killing only one person instead of five, which I believe is just as wrong as killing five.
I Okay. So you would feel responsible for killing someone if you flipped the switch?
R Yes.
I Okay. So why is it better to allow the events to occur and let the one person live than to intervene to save five lives?
R Because either way a life is lost. Even though I could have intervened to kill only one person… I mean I believe it’s morally wrong to personally kill someone. So even though there are five workmen that would have been  killed, it would have been because someone wanted or intentionally wanted someone to die over another. And also, I mean, it’s definitely not okay for people to die in that situation, but the reason why I didn’t choose that one person over the five is because I wouldn’t want to intentionally kill someone.
I So I picked up on a couple things you were saying, I think one was that either way someone will die. And then another thing I heard you say was “personally killing” someone; you felt it was wrong to personally kill. What do you mean by that?
R Like if I flip the switch, I would be initiating the train to go kill that one person. If I didn’t do anything, it’s not my fault that the workmen were there while the train was coming. They should have known that the train was coming before working, so it’s not my fault. So it’s just for me morally, I would not feel comfortable flipping a switch because I know I would end up killing one of the workmen.
I Okay. If you flip the switch it would be your fault but you don’t think it would be your fault if you didn’t flip the switch?
R Right.
I Okay. So why is it all right to let the five people die?
R I mean, it’s not all right, but either way someone would die. If I flip the switch and it went onto the other track and nothing would have happened, I would have felt better ruining their schedule than if I flipped the switch and they killed another workman , it would almost look like I intended that person to die, I messed up their schedule. I mean I don’t know exactly what they were planning on doing, maybe the five workmen could have moved. I just feel as though if I flip the switch and the train went to the other side that he would die and the five workmen would not die but it would be because of me ruining their schedule and that would look a little… I don’t know, I just could see it as being morally wrong more than being morally right.
I Yeah. I see. So the fact that you see it as being morally wrong to flip the switch… but then you were also talking about not wanting to interfere with their schedule. But is it more about not wanting to interfere with them or is it more about how you would personally feel?
R I think it’s more about what I believe rather than actually ruining their schedule.
I So more about how you would feel if you did flip the switch, which makes you not want to.
R Yeah.
I Okay. Now suppose that someone else decides to intervene and save the 5 people. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R I could understand their intentions, seeing as one is a lot less than five, but personally I would not feel comfortable feel it. I would see that the person maybe had poor judgment in thinking that just because there’s one person on the train track it’s okay if they die versus five, whereas that person was probably on the track because he knew that the train wasn’t going to be there. That’s a little bit what I meant by “interfering,” like I wouldn’t want to pull the switch because then that person who didn’t know the train would be going there would get killed, not by his or her fault, versus the five other workmen who were there. I understand why someone would say killing one person is better than five, I just don’t feel comfortable with that person’s decision.
I Yeah. So you wouldn’t feel comfortable with the decision. So do you think you’d say that it’s not ok, then?
R I would say it’s not ok. I would have say something else should have been, I know you can’t do anything else in this study, but that just wouldn’t be something I would do.
I So you can understand their perspective if they were seeing that it was 1 person instead of 5, but you don’t think that it would be ok for them to do that?
R Right. I don’t agree.
I And can you repeat what you were saying about why it wouldn’t be okay for someone else to do it, even though you do understand, it still wouldn’t be okay?
R It still wouldn’t be okay because I think that the person  had  poor judgment in thinking that this person is less worthy than the five people just because he’s there alone, and therefore if he’s there alone it’s okay for him to die versus five people. Just comparing in amounts I don’t think is morally correct.
I Okay. So it’s just the fact that you’re saving more doesn’t make it morally right?
R Yeah.
I Okay. You are standing on a pedestrian walkway that arches over a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a large stranger. The only way to save the five workmen is to push the stranger, who would fall onto tracks and stop the train. The stranger will be killed if you push him. Is it all right or not all right to push the stranger onto the tracks and stop the train?
R It’s not all right.
I Mhm. So why is it not all right?
R Because you’re going to kill this person who has nothing to do with what’s going on in order to save people who should not be there in the first place. I just don’t see it as being a good trade-off.
I Okay. That person has nothing to do with the situation? Can you say more about what that has to do with your decision to not push him?
R If I push the large stranger, who is completely innocent and everything, and killing that person in order to save five lives… I guess my answer to this is similar to the previous one, because I just don’t believe killing that one person – especially because he has nothing to do with the train track or anything – is not right at all to save five workmen, who are involved in the situation. I don’t think it’s right of me to push someone who has nothing to do with the situation into the situation, and it’s worse to be killing that person too.
I So what do you mean by “the five workmen are involved”?
R They are the ones that are going to be hit by the train. I see the situation as slightly different, because there’s six workmen it’s just that one of them is on a different track, and I mean in this situation, this is a stranger that’s not working with the train tracks, he’s probably just going somewhere…  no involvement at all. I would not even think of pushing a stranger into the train.
I Okay. So is it mostly about the stranger having nothing to do with the situation?
R A little bit, and a little bit more of my idea before where I wouldn’t kill one person to save five people, like the amount doesn’t matter, it’s still killing.
I Okay. And killing, I think you gave the reason in the last scenario, that would be morally wrong? Even though it is five instead of one?
R Mhm.
I Okay. So why is it better to allow the events to occur and let the one person live than to intervene to save the fives lives?
R Because in order for the five lives to live, you have to kill that one other person, who’s not even a part of the situation at all.
I Can you say a little bit more about what you mean by “not part of the situation”? Like can you explain why that factors into your decision?
R I see it as being different from the first situation because he’s not working there, and to me, it almost seems like in the first scenario someone could say none of the workmen should have been on the track, or maybe that one person… I don’t know I think there could have been other involvement in the first scenario that could have caused the train towards the five workmen…
I Are you talking about this scenario?
R I was talking the first one to compare it to the second one because I don’t know how else to explain it. It’s just like the second one, there’s an innocent person who’s not involved in it at all, so he would have no idea what would be going on, versus the first one.
I Okay. So you think it’s better to allow the events to occur to let the one person live because that person is an innocent person?
R Mhm.
I And the five workmen… what are they in comparison to the stranger?
R I mean I guess they are innocent; I just feel as though they’re the ones that are working on the train and they should probably know more about what’s going on with the train. Obviously I would do something different to save them, I just would not throw that person into the track.
I So what do you mean that the workmen should know more about what’s going on with the train?
R I almost feel as though if they are working on the train track, they should know when a train is coming and when a train is leaving, and if they didn’t know about that it’s not exactly my fault but it’s not the strangers fault either. There really isn’t a big difference between this scenario and the first one, it’s just I would feel more bad about killing a stranger than killing a workman just because of their involvement in the train.
I Okay. That makes sense. So the stranger would be considered an innocent person, whereas the workmen are on the tracks and you think that they should be aware of, like, the train schedule and things like that?
R Yeah. Like it’s not the innocent person’s fault at all. There could have been some weird miscommunication between the workmen, there could have been something among the workmen. It’s just that I know that the stranger’s not involved in it and doesn’t deserve to die over it.
I Okay. So why is it all right to let the five people die?
R It’s not all right to let anyone die; it’s just not all right to kill them with another person’s life. Or, I mean, it wouldn’t be okay for them to live while one person dies over it. But it’s not okay for them to die.
I So it’s not okay to allow them to live while you’re killing the one another person? I think that’s something like what you said…
R Yeah. I mean that is what I said. I just don’t think it’s right to allow these five workmen to live from killing someone else.
I I see. So it’s not okay to kill anyone to save another?
R I don’t think so.
I Okay. Now suppose someone else decides to intervene and save the five people. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R Not all right.
I And why is it not all right?
R I understand their intentions by saving five people versus one. I just wouldn’t trust their judgment in how they think it’s okay that this random stranger dies for these five people just because of the amount of people that would be saved. I just don’t see that as being right.
I Okay. So you understand their intentions to save five, but you don’t think it’s right?
R Mhm.
I Okay. And why isn’t it right?
R Because that person would be killing a random stranger, who doesn’t really deserve to die – and I’m not saying the workmen do – but it’s the fact that the way they’re saving the five workmen is through someone who’s just completely innocent and who doesn’t deserve to die at all.
I Okay. The stranger kind of deserves to die even less?
R Yeah.
I So you understand their intentions, but don’t think it’s right to kill anybody.
R Mhm.
SECOND PAIR : (x)

X



1/1
dog/5
scratch/5
1/5fam
TIME :
30:01
I You are standing near a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a switch.  The only way to save the five workmen is to flip the switch, which would divert the train onto an alternate track where there is a large dog. The dog will be killed if you flip the switch. Is it all right or not all right to pull the switch and redirect the trolley on to the side track?
R I guess you can say that every life is precious… I would flip the switch. I love dogs and everything, but to me, the lives of people are more important than the lives of dogs. 
I Could you say more about what you mean by being “more important” than dogs?
R I would flip the switch because I would be saving five people, even though the dog would die… I don’t know really how else to elaborate… Human lives I feel are precious, and in this situation, it’s either human lives or the life of an animal, and to me the lives of humans are more important than the life of an animal so I would flip the switch.
I Okay. I’m just wondering about the word important, I guess. So just… why do you think people are more important?
R I believe that…. I mean I don’t know…
I Obviously, I know it’s difficult, I like dogs too, I just mean… in this scenario, you would say it’s all right to save five for the life of a dog.
R Yes.
I And it seems like the reason you’re giving is just because you think people’s lives are more important that dogs. 
R Yes.
I So I was just wondering if you could explain that more.
R I don’t know how I can explain it more. I just would believe it. It’s just something I believe. I don’t know if this helps with your study but I went to a catholic high school where we took religion class and things like that and sometimes I feel like my morals are built off of those classes and what I’ve learned, and a lot of the time we considered the lives of humans to be more precious, maybe, than the lives of animals. So maybe that’s where it stems from. I don’t know how else to elaborate.
I Sure. Okay. I was just trying to probe to get more information. So why is it better to save the five lives than to allow the events to occur and let the dog live?
R Because at the end of the day it’s five human lives and I feel like that would have a more drastic effect than the life of a dog. I may be wrong, but I would think that saving the five lives would be more, I don’t want to say important, but…
I You can say whatever you want of course, but okay, so the five human’s deaths will have a more drastic effect? On what? What do you mean by that?
R Just the loss to family members, friends… if I could avoid that by just killing the dog, I would. I would feel the need to intervene in order to prevent the death of the five individuals.
I Okay. So the five human deaths would have a larger effect on a lot of other people. So why is it all right to let the dog die? 
R Because in order for the dog to die there would be five lives saved, which I feel is a better trade-off.
I Okay. So is it  about it being five, just because it’s more lives saved?
R I think it’s because it’s human lives saved.
I Okay. Now suppose someone else decides not to intervene and let the five people die. Would it be all right or not all right to do that?
R If someone else did that…  I mean, If I read it in the paper or something that it could have been prevented…. Because the person didn’t do it and I don’t know their story on why they didn’t do it, I wouldn’t feel like it’s not all right. I would feel that it was okay that they didn’t do it.
I So you think it’s okay that they decided not to intervene?
R Yes.
I Okay. So why would it be okay, in your view, if somebody else did that?
R Well first of all, it’s not that person’s fault that the workmen were there, and second of all, if they decided not to intervene, I mean they really don’t have to; it’s not an obligation, it’s just, if they did not intervene I would understand because of those things. Maybe that person was feeling as though they couldn’t just kill the dog, maybe that person would feel guilty being involved… So I would understand why they would not do it.
I Okay. So you could understand that someone might feel guilty?
R Yeah.
I And also just the fact that it’s no one’s fault or not that person’s fault that the workmen were on the tracks?
R Yes.
I Okay. I’m going to read the next one. You are standing on a pedestrian walkway that arches over a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are five railway workmen, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a large dog. The only way to save the five workmen is to push the dog, who would fall onto tracks and stop the train. The dog will be killed if you push him. Is it all right or not all right to push the dog onto the tracks and stop the train?
R Okay. I know it’s like similar situations, but I wouldn’t do it.
I Okay. So why wouldn’t you think it’d be okay to do it?
R Sort of comparing it the first scenario, like the dog should not have been on the train tracks in the first place, but in this scenario the dog has every right to be on the walkway and I almost think that in the first scenario the dog was involved in the situation just being on the tracks, but in the second one, by me pushing the dog onto the tracks, I’m putting a dog that was not involved at all into something that it didn’t have to be in the first place to save five workmen. I also wouldn’t feel all right pushing someone else’s pet in order to save workmen. It wouldn’t be my place to sort of grab their dog and throw it. I would feel really uncomfortable doing that. I would rather do something else, but if there’s nothing else to do, I just wouldn’t do that.
I Okay. So you see it as being better to not intervene because the dog’s not involved?
R Mhm.
I Okay. Can you say more about that?
R The dog has every right to be where it is, and by me involving it in a situation for it to die in, I feel is wrong of me to do personally, because it’s almost like I’m saying your life if not worth their lives. I know before I said that human lives are more precious, and  that is true, but this time I wouldn’t feel right just picking up someone else’s pet and throwing it when that pet was not involved at all. The dog should not have been on the tracks in the first place in the first one, so I feel as though if I flip the switch and the train does hit the dog, it’s not really… this is hard.
I No, that’s totally fine. So, the dog has the right to be on the walkway. And you said even though you had given the answer that human lives are more precious, you see… but this scenario is different, in your view? Because the dog is not involved?
R Yeah. 
I And you see that dog as having a right to being on the walkway?
R Yeah.
I And what do you mean by having a right to be there? I guess I’m just asking because even though you say that human lives are more precious, I’m just wondering why?
R Human lives are more precious, and I said that before. And I still believe it now, it’s just I would not feel comfortable in order to save those lives by throwing in a pet that was not involved at all because the pet has the right to be on the walkway. The pet could have the right to be on the train track, I mean it could walk on there, I just don’t think it should be on there…. And by being on the train track made it involved in the situation. And I feel as though that’s why I would pull the switch.
I Okay.
R But in this situation for me to just pick up the dog and have direct contact with the dog and putting it into something that it wasn’t involved in is not right.
I Okay. So why is it better to allow the events to occur and let the dog live than to intervene to save the five lives?
R I would probably feel guilty taking someone else’s dog and throwing it onto the train tracks to die in order to save the five lives. 
I Mhm. So you’d feel guilty because it was someone else’s dog?
R Yes and that it just wasn’t a part of the situation at all. 
I Okay.  And why is it all right to let the five people die?
R It’s not all right to let them die, it’s just the way that they would end up living wouldn’t be morally right for me, if I had like took the dog and threw it onto the tracks I would feel badly about throwing the dog and making it involved in something it wasn’t involved in.
I Well you would be pushing the dog, but you still see that as morally wrong?
R Yeah.
I Okay, so it’s okay to let the five people die because it’s morally wrong to kill the dog?
R I feel like it’s morally wrong to put the dog in something that it wasn’t involved in at all in order to save the five workmen.
I Okay. So now suppose that someone else decide to intervene and save the five people. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R I don’t know if it would be all right for them to do that, but I understand the person’s perspective in doing it and throwing the dog and saving the human lives. I just would not feel comfortable physically pushing the dog.
I Right. But if somebody else decided to push the dog, do you think it’d be okay for them to do that?
R I guess if they’re strong enough in their beliefs that the dog’s life is as important as a human’s life and they feel completely comfortable pushing the dog, knowing that it’s not involved… I mean I would think of it as being all right…it’s just if I were in the situation…
I That’s fine. I know that you wouldn’t feel comfortable pushing the dog. But if somebody else decided that they wanted to save the five people and push the dog, do you think that would be okay or not okay?
R I think that would be okay.
I Okay. So why would it be okay if someone else wanted to do that?
R Because I understand their intentions in why they wanted to do that.
I Sure. And what would their intentions be?
R That human lives are more precious than dogs’ lives.

THIRD PAIR : (x)



X

1/1
Do1g/5
scratch/5
1/5fam
TIME :
13:08
I You are standing near a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are your sister and her four children, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a switch.  The only way to save your sister and her four children is to flip the switch, which would divert the train onto an alternate track where there is a single railway workman. The single workman will be killed if you flip the switch. Is it all right or not all right to pull the switch and redirect the trolley on to the side track?
R This is hard. I mean, I guess in this situation, I would flip the switch.
I Okay. So why would it be okay to flip the switch?
R Because to me my sister and her kids are more important to me, and I feel as though if I were in the situation, I would just automatically flip the switch, despite the fact that it’s both human lives and I would get involved.
I So even though it’s both human lives, you’re family is more important to you? 
R Mhm.
I So it would be about saving your family because of how they feel to you? Or their importance to you?
R Yup.
I Okay. Why is it better to save the five lives than to allow the events to occur and let the one person live?
R It wouldn’t be all right, I don’t think, it’s just if there was no other choice, I would do it because I don’t think I’d be able to live with myself knowing that I let my sister and her kids die.
I Right. So you wouldn’t be able to live with yourself if you let your family die.
R Mhm.
I Okay. Why is it all right to let the one person die?
R Well, it is not all right. It’s not morally correct; what I’m doing is probably very wrong because I’m involving myself into killing that one person. It’s just that I know if there’s nothing else to do I would kill that one person because that person  is not as important to me.
I Yeah. So even though it’s not morally correct, your family is more important to you.
R Yeah.
I Okay. Now suppose someone else decides not to intervene and let their five family members die. Would it be all right or not all right for them to do that?
R Because I know that what I was doing before was probably not morally correct, in my opinion, I believe that what they did was okay, although I don’t know how they would be able to live with the fact that their family died and they could have intervened to prevent the death of their family. But because it was morally correct not to put one life before five other lives, I would see it as all right.
I Okay. So you understand their view because… well you had said you don’t believe that it would be morally correct to save the five, but you still would because it’s family.
R Yes.
I So if somebody else decided it was morally incorrect and didn’t want to, that’s why you think it’d be okay?
R Yes.
I Okay. This is the last one. You are standing on a pedestrian walkway that arches over a train track as you see a runaway train car moving down the track. In the path of the train are your sister and her four children, who will surely be killed unless you do something. Next to you there is a large stranger. The only way to save your sister and her four children is to push the stranger, who would fall onto tracks and stop the train. The stranger will be killed if you push him. Is it all right or not all right to push the stranger onto the tracks and stop the train?
R This is hard. I don’t know…I don’t know what I would do. I don’t know.
I Well I guess if you were in this situation, you would do something, I suppose. I mean I know this situation sort of forces you to have to choose to either push the stranger or to not, so just… it’s hypothetical; just thinking. If you were in this situation, do you think it would be all right or not all right to push the stranger?
R I would probably push the stranger. 
I Okay. So why do you think it would be okay, or why would you push the stranger?
R I would push the stranger in order to save my sister and her family, but it would not be morally correct, but I would do it anyway.
I Okay. So you might say that it’s all right to push them even though it’s not morally correct?
R Mhm.
I So even though it’s not morally correct, why would it be okay to push the stranger?
R Because that way my family would live.
I And your family…
R My family’s lives would be more important than the life of the stranger.
I Yeah. Okay. And why is it better to intervene to save the five lives than to allow the events to occur and let the one person live?
R Because I feel as though I would try to do what I can to protect my family. And although I would be harming and killing someone else, if there’s nothing else to do, I would end up doing it, although it’s morally wrong.
I Okay. So you’re protecting your family, even though it’s morally wrong in your perspective.  
R Mhm.
I So why is it all right to let the one person die?
R It’s not all right, but it would give me the result I would want, although it really is not all right.
I Sure. So it’s about the impact it would have on you?
R Yeah.
I Okay. Now suppose that someone else decides not to intervene and let their five family members die. Would it be all right or not all right to do that?
R It would be all right.
I And why would it be all right?
R Because they’re not saying that one life is important over another, despite it being their family. I personally believe that it would be morally wrong for me to push the person, but I did it anyway. So for someone else not to, I could see why and I could see it as being all right.
I I see. So you think it’d be morally wrong to push someone, so you would understand if someone felt that way too.
R Yeah.

OVERALL QUESTIONS
I You said it was (not) ok to save the five in the scenario with the large man on the bridge, and you also said it was (not) ok to save the five in the scenario with the single railway worker on the side track. Do you think there is a difference between these two scenarios? Why/why not?
R Yes. 
I And why is there, or what is, the difference?
R In the first scenario the one workman was on the track, and the five other workmen were on the track, so they’re both involved in sort of the whole train system thing. But in the other situation, there’s a stranger who had nothing to do with the train and how it was running that day or anything.
I On a scale of one to five, during the interview, how likely did you think it was that pulling the switch would change the course of the train?
R What do you mean?
I So when I was reading the scenarios to you, and in your perspective, how likely did you think it was that pulling the switch would change the course of the train?
R I thought it would just go to the other track.
I Okay. So you thought it was likely that pulling the switch would change the course of the train?
R Yes.
I On a scale of one to five, during the interview, how likely did you think it was that pushing the large man would stop the train?
R I’ve never heard that pushing someone would stop a train, however there’s nothing else to do… so it’d maybe be like a 3.
I Have you ever participated in a study like this before? Have you ever encountered these kinds of “trolley dilemmas” before?
R No.

AD, 8/2/12

1


